really believe that no person has ever
broken your heart but they broke your
expectations
and by breaking your expectations they
get you closer to your heart
and it's also the fact that it's
temporary that also adds to it right
that all of this is temporary and we
move as if we have forever and it's
crazy
hey everybody welcome to impact theory
our goal with this show and company is
to introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams alright today's guest is an
actor comedian best-selling author and
transformational expert he started
performing stand-up comedy at the age of
12 and was headlining by the time he was
18 making him one of the youngest
headlining acts in the country from
there he poured himself into his craft
and continued to excel he took first
place in comedy central's laugh riots
competition earned a number one ranking
on comedy central's stand-up showdown
had two number one specials on comedy
central and made more than 100
appearances in film and television
including 10 things i hate about you not
another teen movie jimmy kimmel live and
chelsea lately but then
at the height of his success he began to
realize that he wanted to do something
entirely different and even though it
meant facing a tremendous amount of
ridicule he transitioned from being a
comic to being someone who uses comedy
to help himself and others transform
since making the change has been just as
successful and today he can be found
leading his transformational event
evolving out loud to sold out crowds and
appearing on stage with such luminaries
as tony robbins eckhart tolle jim carrey
and deepak chopra he's also been a guest
speaker at thousands of colleges summits
and fortune 500 conferences including
agape international the sun valley
wellness festival and the longevity now
conference
so please help me in welcoming the new
york times usa today and wall street
journal best-selling author of i hope i
screw this up kyle cease
welcome to the show man
we got your whole like that's crazy fan
base in the house today yeah after that
intro i'm excited to hear what i mean
you don't plan ahead so uh we we ought
to be right in the pocket today
um i feel like if i planned ahead you
wouldn't be hearing me you'd be hearing
something i prepared
and if i was doing something that i
prepared it would be because i want to
get something from someone you know we
say am i doing this right am i doing
this wrong
that question implies there is a right
or wrong way and how do you measure that
like did it sell something did people
like it did i get approval from the
audience
so i also feel that in the moment we're
always feeling something like if you
just say what you're feeling
then you actually create a space where
the person across from you or the
audience goes oh i know what that feels
like and i can connect with you but in
trying to prepare something often we
block what we're feeling and then bring
something that we prepared earlier in
the day and people miss out on the real
you and one thing i was thinking about
at one point a while ago and just now
when it came up again
is that and it was three years ago when
i first thought of it but then i thought
of it again many times since then and
just now it came up so one thing i just
realized again
is that
it's a good thing i've seen your comedy
yeah it it
well this is the thing is we live in a
world where we don't say what we're
thinking we say what we think people
want to hear so if you get into an
elevator and there's someone that you're
attracted to that gets on the elevator
and you're trying to think of the right
thing to say what would happen if you
looked at the person and said
i'm trying to think of something to say
to you
like that's actually true right and how
attractive would that be if a person is
i'm trying to think of the right thing
to say to you like there's vulnerability
in that there's possibility they get to
co-create with you but most people don't
say that they instead say what they
think the person wants to hear right so
we instead look at this person and go
there sure is weather outside
and they're like yes and there was
weather yesterday too and now you're two
phony people and this is who you're
gonna marry
that's the world we live in right i'm
gonna marry this person after starting
the entire thing off inauthentically
so for me not preparing is so much
easier and so much more true and there's
so many amazing moments from that
right and people go i don't know how you
do that and i remind people when you go
to a restaurant you don't have a set
list
you don't sit there and think first i'll
ask them if they have pets and if they
like ice cream you'll actually just say
what you feel
and in that space you have a two-hour
off-the-cuff conversation so that's all
we're doing
it's really interesting because
looking at your career and seeing how
successful you've been and even now like
post getting into a much more mindful
space
i know that you differentiate between
goals and intentions but you definitely
have intentions so walk us through like
what the difference is between a goal
and an intention and how you continue to
be somebody who strives um
with that what you were just talking
about which is not over planning and
falling into falsehood right well i
believe a goal is something you can
actually see the outcome of right like
i'm gonna make a million dollars so if
you say i'm gonna go make a million
dollars then you might actually see your
bank account change but that might not
necessarily mean that you change
right so if you have an intention that's
an inner in the moment goal right and
life can mirror what your intention is
so let's say you're feeling off if your
intention is i'm here to grow then
feeling off might be okay right so if
you say my inner intention is to learn
my inner intention is to free myself my
inner intention is to whatever
that's what you are right now it's a
word that you can bring to you it's
something that's different many people
don't realize they all have intentions
but they haven't created it themselves
intentionally so they might say
you know i'm worried right now and their
inner intention might be to not have
conflict so then they're against that
worry and they're actually scared
right so an intention is what i like to
bring with me my intention like i
actually have the word patience on my
shirt i love the word patience
like if i'm doing for instance sometimes
i'll do a juice fast right
and i was three days into a juice fast
and i actually stepped on the scale and
gained weight and if my intention was
results i'd be really pissed
because i didn't get any
but because my intention is patience i
stay with it and say okay i'm not
supposed to just get results in three
days i'm supposed to stay with it and
then bigger results usually show up as a
byproduct of you being that intention
being that space
so to me an intention is way bigger
because you don't know what the results
are going to be
but you change with an intention you
become a different person you see the
world differently after a while
so i don't like goals that much because
goals are often created from you in that
egoic state
you get what i mean like in the state
you're in like everything you're
thinking right now the biggest goal you
can see for yourself
still brings in your past story so your
past story might think i'm someone for
instance just to give a measurable thing
let's say you're someone who makes 20
000 a year and you want to create a goal
for next year
so the biggest you're going to see is
like i'll make 30 000 next year
yeah but
you're just this moment
what you and i and oprah
and trump
and anyone you can think of we're all
the same thing
infinite
possibilities just heart lungs potential
in this moment right now and if you undo
yourself from the old story
then you can change really fast when you
say that we're just the moment um
are you talking about that we have the
opportunity to push that potential in
any direction that we want what does
that mean exactly okay so what i believe
is all you are is this moment right now
i'm just not sure like how to
internalize that yeah so check this out
everything that you perceive about
yourself from your past
it doesn't exist right now
you're just sitting here right
so if you take a deep breath you might
have these little images of what your
past story is like things that happen to
you things that you feel reactions to
whatever but if i actually realize that
everything that i think i am from past
accomplishments or future
accomplishments or that i i have as
goals or whatever
are not me that i'm just this space that
those ideas show up in
then often they might leave right let's
say you have a thought no one likes me
because no one liked me at that one
thing in the past
okay who's saying that
it's just a thought it's not you it's a
thought
that comes from evidence of one thing in
the past but that doesn't mean that's
you right so that thought shows up
and you just let it be there
one thing i love to do with people is
when they say i'm nervous or i'm scared
or anything that feels like a negative
thing i have them say and i love that
afterwards
so if i said right now i have no idea
how this is an interview is going to go
and i love that
all of a sudden i'm free right if i
think i have no idea how this interview
is going to go and that scares me
then i'm going to be entangled right and
the problem isn't the thought it's your
resistance to the thought
so where are these thoughts coming from
they're just thoughts that we have these
things that we think and usually we
think that those thoughts are bigger
than us and then we resist them
so i don't know if that answers your
question but what i realize is that all
those things that we think we are that
feel limited
you know i'm not enough i'm not worthy
i'm scared all those things that we
think we are are the only thing we have
as evidence of that
is our past
right
i'm not enough because that one time
everything that comes in and hears me
say that you're just infinite that
you're amazing
when you hear a voice go he doesn't know
my story though
my story
my past
it's not what you are
talk to me about that time you're making
the transition out of stand-up comedy uh
the people that you've been performing
with side by side now begin to come at
you pretty aggressively
um
they're viral videos are going viral
about them sort of coming after you yes
and it sucked yeah
and how did you work your way through
that my friend diego said this once that
became something that i live by
is whenever you let go of something
scary you're only scared because your
mind can measure what you will lose
but it can't see what you'll gain
so if you're sad because you're going
through a breakup you're focused on the
loss of one person versus the gain of
7.5 billion people if you're bisexual
and willing to date everybody
so your mind just remembers one person
but it can't see what's on the other
side of it and that's no different to me
than getting on an elevator
when you get on an elevator it's a dark
closed room just like when you meditate
sometimes your visions of what you were
disappear and you feel darkness but that
doesn't mean because these doors are
closed that there isn't a whole new
world on the other side about to open up
so when you feel lost you're really in a
problem of you're just addicted to
seeing the old story
i want to go back to what you said about
the stories and the stories we tell
ourselves
which really feels to me very
foundational in your entire philosophy
and i've seen you on stage working with
people to help them release their
stories which is really really
special and neat to to see you do and
you want to talk about something that
would give me heart palpitations
it's uh it's really neat
how do you help people break out of
those stories like what is the process
well this might sound ignorant but i
believe all of our challenges that we
have that we get triggered by are an
illusion
i don't mean that like so don't pay
attention to them because that's
ignoring them they still need to be felt
and released
but almost everything that every person
says they can get to an energy where
they're stuck in something and i can see
the lie i can feel the lie
so if someone says
whatever i'm going through a massive
stage fright right now
the first thing i have them do often is
say and i love that
and right away it loosens up right they
they release it is that because you're
shifting their perspective on yes not
only am i in my opinion shifting their
perspective but i'm taking them to
what's true
in other words most people think the
things that are temporary are the
permanent things
right the temporary passing i'm going
through a breakup you don't understand
that in a month you're gonna be okay
you think when you're in a low when
you're feeling bad you think that thing
you're feeling is how you're gonna feel
forever which is what makes it feel
worse
you know what i mean when you're in a
low you're like this is my life now
this is it
or when you're in a high you also get
extra high because you think this is my
life now
i've fallen in love with this person
so we're together forever and i'm always
going to feel like this
they're the one then a month later
you're like is this my life forever
and then and then it goes back and forth
and you don't get that all of your
emotions are temporary they're passing
things but there is this thing in this
moment right now that i feel is
permanent
this thing that you can feel just this
silence this space
i've had so many things that have shown
up and left that i once thought were my
reality that it feels like parts of me
continue to die and i allow them to die
right
so most of our pain comes from believing
i believe that we should keep holding on
to these things that are really heavy in
our lives
even in physical examples like just
there's a lot of us that have an attic
full of things right a lot of those
things are things that your past thinks
you should have but they're not
necessarily what your heart would want
right now
right like this is something i inherited
or i should keep this and one day show
my kids
right so to give you an example for me i
had a top comedy central special in 2006
i was cleaning a couple years ago and i
found this huge poster from that and it
was something i'm so proud of and i was
like should i keep this and i was like
my mind comes up with a justification
for why i should keep that
and i believe when your mind comes up
with a justification
that means you don't want it
i don't justify with to anybody why i do
this for a living i don't justify who my
family is i don't justify who my best
friends are to anybody
but there are some of us that have
situations like well i do not like that
person but they were nice to me that one
day
i don't like yeah that that job sucks
but i will get medical in six months
right you're allowing yourself to lower
yourself to your mind understanding why
you're ignoring your body
because define for people that the the
mind-body distinction which you yes talk
very eloquently about so i believe
there's two voices that we all have
there's a first voice that tells you the
next step and it can only tell you the
next step right so those are those quick
inspired moments that show up that say
things like
what if we left this company
you can't see what'll happen right it's
that first voice you it's before you
realize you might go broke it's that
first moment what if we leave this
company or what if we ask that person
out or that inspired moment that goes
what if i just flew to italy right now
or started that book or that band or
took piano lessons for a year and just
locked them down now whatever it is it's
an inspired thing you know what i mean i
believe that feeling is a preview
but it can't tell you why you should do
that because you've never done that so
this first voice that voice that we hear
in our body
especially when you're silent or you're
in a really good mood you're laughing
and you say something like we should
whatever say something kind of crazy
that's amazing
the book that i wrote called i hope i
screw this up
how free would you be if you were just
like yeah we might screw this up but
awesome
i love that right what will i also
become if i'm willing to make a mess but
also it's my calling it's something in
me that says i need to do this so that's
the first voice
but we've trained ourselves to ignore
this voice and listen to the second
voice that i believe is a collection of
the average society you know it's what
we learned it's the practical voice the
voice that says i need to be responsible
and it's the should voice whenever you
say i should do where are you getting
that from
what society says but we forget
society's kind of crazy
there's a lot of unhappy people there a
lot of addictions a lot of stuckness
right
a lot of murders a lot of like why are
we using them as the
the bell weather that we should
get our advice from right so this first
voice goes i think we should do this and
we go right to this voice that says why
we shouldn't when i went off on a
tangent but what i was going to say was
with the poster
i thought i had a justification for why
i should keep it i one day might want to
show a kid if i have a child like i
might want to show them this poster
which by the way
what day will that be like it's time for
me to show you my accomplishment in 2006
honey
there isn't really a
excitement for that day like we're
holding things and we don't realize that
day will never actually
happen
so i took this poster to the garbage
because it wasn't a 10 in my body
it's a story of who i was not who i am
now
and i said i'm just going to release
this and it was scary as hell and i feel
i feel the more scary it is the more
change you're going to feel so i dropped
it in the dumpster and i turned around
and i had this freedom release i
unhooked myself from thinking i was that
comedian
and i realized if i have a child one day
which i do now have if i have a child
one day they'd much rather have my
presence
my presence as many moments as possible
than me bragging about some
accomplishment i made
20 years ago
totally so if
stories are that bedrock that foundation
null
how do you get people to begin to build
a story that's going to be empowering
and i guess i'm giving you that word i
don't know if that's a word you would
use but sure um what are the building
blocks of a a healthy
story so what i like to do actually is
help people to get okay with where they
are
like
what i really believe is that if you're
if you're really only able to look at
yourself in this moment right if you're
really only able to see you
you have to actually take in the idea
that you're enough first because
otherwise you're going to always be
moving from a place of lack and fixing
right tell me what you mean when you say
that to really accept that you are
enough right as in okay so for instance
there's many people that feel guilty
about something right
okay if you actually go to your heart
you can understand at a true level why
you could have done something like that
everyone can
but what our pain
what what causes our pain is trying to
get society to understand why we did
something but the collective society
isn't at a consciousness where they've
forgiven themselves for anything so
there's a lot of judgment you'll look at
in yourself if you look at yourself
through society's eyes
one of the most amazing stories that you
have and that was your mother passing
away just six weeks before your daughter
was born and it was i think the time
that i really clicked into place with
your philosophy of understanding one you
were really real about what you were
going through and then two it was like i
really understood
that you have to take a real look at
what's going on because i for me
certainly when i first started hearing
people
that talk about you know creating space
stepping into space that kind of stuff i
didn't know how to to get my hooks in it
to really understand at like a visceral
level what's happening yes um but your
example there really helped me
understand in a concrete way where
you're coming from walk us through that
walk us through the the lesson that you
learned i think it's really powerful
so
for
like starting when i was probably 20.
no matter what i did as an achievement
in my comedy career
my mom
wanted to be a grandma like that was one
thing
that i heard all the time it didn't
matter who i was dating it was
when am i gonna be a grandma like i felt
this vibration from her always wanting
to have a grandchild um
my fiance christy and i found out that
we were
pregnant
the same minute trump won by the way
which was really weird because when
people had many different reactions all
over the world
we were just glowing
especially christy she was just fine it
was weird to hear the news and cnn
projects trump and she's just
and i'm just like what is happening in
the world right now like this moment
we're pregnant and this is happening
like no matter what you feel about trump
it was just such a crazy switch in
energy worldwide and in my life
personally right
so
we tell my mom and
she's also
having opinions about trump winning and
freaking out and everything like that
and i tell her that she's like yeah
right you know and i'm like no we really
are we're pregnant
so she gets so excited
and she's just calling me all the time
and asking about the baby and my mom was
really one of my best friends like we're
very close and i told her everything
she'd be one of the first calls on any
accomplishment so i was so excited to
tell her about the baby
and then
while we were in the middle of the
pregnancy my mom got delirium and just
started going crazy and living in a
hospital for three months and just
she was gone all of a sudden and i'd
tell her about the baby and she'd half
remember it and half forget and not
remember that we're pregnant and
it was crazy and one of the things that
i say in my
talks that i had to live
is that i really believe that no person
has ever broken your heart
but they broke your expectations
and by breaking your expectations they
get you closer to your heart
so
so many people that person broke my
heart no they didn't you had a belief
that you were supposed to be with that
person forever and really there was kind
of an ownership aspect to that you know
if you really just take in that we only
have this moment you'll really i really
sincerely appreciate this moment that
i'm on the show with you that i'm
hanging out with you
and it's also the fact that it's
temporary that also adds to it right
that all of this is temporary and we
move as if we have forever and it's
crazy
and so we get very spoiled by the
relationships and the friendships that
we're in and we don't just appreciate
them in the moment
so we create these expectations and in
that expectation you better be like you
were before and you can't be you i have
an expectation we're here forever you
can't like someone else you can't feel
anything else you need to be mine and we
have these ex you know expectations
and we forget to live
and we forget to enjoy that we get this
moment
and
no one's ever broken your heart because
i've never had it where an expectation
wasn't broken then i didn't cry
something out and feel closer to myself
right
so six weeks before my daughter's born
my mom dies
may 31st she died may 31st 2017
and i had known enough to just let this
hit me
don't go eat a bunch don't go get
distracted don't like
talk through it in a way that's denying
it
just let it hit me my best friend
just died
my mom
and i sat there and i really cried and i
did it on camera there's a video on
youtube called mourning my mom with me
and i just i'm talking to the camera the
next day about what i'm feeling
and it was very
helpful it was very therapeutic for me
to talk about that
and then six weeks later we had this
perfect baby my mom was also worried
because of some false tests that there'd
be something wrong with the baby so my
mom died worried that the baby might not
make it and stuff or that she might not
be healthy
and it turned out we had the greatest
baby in the world this baby's an angel
she's the most amazing thing ever
and i thought about
later as i cried things out more and
more and felt this massive shift in the
last year in my life in both areas
i thought about how you know when you
watch a movie you've seen before with
somebody
you're really in the middle of it like
why am i watching this again just to
show this new date this movie
why do we do that
because we like to enjoy something with
someone else right
and i think that i was set up
to enjoy this baby through my mom
meaning like
if my mom had stayed alive i would have
been like look what she's doing now now
do you like me look what she look look
at how we're connecting on how great the
baby is
but she got out of the way
for me to become a direct father of this
child
she left and i had to grow up because
when she died also the part of me that
was seeking her approval
died too
the story of who i was with my mom also
died
and i cried it out and i felt and then
more of a man showed up
and i can be so much more of a protector
for this little girl if my mom had
stayed alive i might have been trying to
get her approval and maybe even brought
that to my daughter are you proud of me
are you proud of me i'm holding my
entire past here is everyone proud of me
here's here's this accomplishment mom
are you don't you love me she's walking
now
but because she died and i released that
by letting myself release it
i would much rather my mom be here but
it made me stronger
it made me better it made me
more
connected and more focused and more
protective and stronger
and i lost probably 50 pounds since my
mom died too i was like i want to become
the most energetic most
powerful man i can be for this little
girl
and it's making my content better
because i have even
more of a reason to make the world
better because she's in it
i have a one-year-old little girl and
she is a underlying she's an underlying
driving reason for this because i
believe every person on this planet is
capable of changing the world by
changing themselves
and i want to make the world better for
my daughter i love that answer yeah
before i ask my last question tell these
guys where they can find you online
well um
i do a lot of events and we have a lot
of videos and there's all kinds of
different things so kyle cease.com is my
website
it's spelled
k-y-l-e-c-e-a-s-e or i'm assuming it's
under here it's right here
it's also
evolvingoutloud.com
in 2019 i have another book coming out
uh with hay house and it's called the
illusion of money
why chasing money is stopping you from
receiving it and it's not it's about
money but it's not it's about you
and the infinite creative being that you
are that we usually sacrifice because
we're chasing nothing things
and i'm going to live the rest of my
life holding space for everyone
watching and everyone on the planet to
see that they're infinite
until i die
because that's what i'm here to do
and that's what i'm that's my dharma and
that's what i love doing
well you may have just answered my last
question which is what's the impact that
you want to have on the world
i i would say i'm going to let the
impact on the world be a byproduct
of me living in my highest truth because
the biggest impact i can see from here
is probably nothing compared to what
we're capable of
so i'm just going to keep being
surprised and following the highest me
and let it tell me what it's supposed to
be i love that yeah well thank you so
much for coming
all right
guys
this this is a world that you're going
to want to dive into the way that he's
able to bring the comedy into the
transformation is absolutely astonishing
and gives people just the right amount
of a hook to draw you in
and give you something that is
profoundly transformational and help you
really begin to tell a different story
and that part of his message i think is
so incredibly powerful understanding
that you are carrying your past with you
a lot of the times and making decisions
that you think are here and in the now
but they're really based on how you view
yourself and your fear of losing that
and not being open to something new and
creating something new and to show up
with spontaneity he doesn't have a
script you can see he's working with
people that don't have a script and it's
really really phenomenal to watch him go
through that process i think you're
going to see yourself in a lot of what
he does so
be sure to check it out his book is
phenomenal you have to love the title i
hope i screw this up uh it's really
really fantastic all right guys if you
haven't already be sure to subscribe and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
thank you
hey everybody thank you so much for
watching and being a part of this
community if you haven't already be sure
to subscribe you're going to get weekly
videos on building a growth mindset
cultivating grit and unlocking your full
potential